Tell us something about your early life,
including the names of your parents, the dates and
places, if you can, of their birth and death, the
date and place of your birth, and the schools you
attended before you came to A&M, and any things you
can remember about your childhood that would be of
interest. Well, my father was W.R. Armstrong. He
was born... in Dallas County, where White Rock
Lake now is, on a farm. His dad was farming there.
And my mother was born in Georgia. And she went
through school there in what would now be called
Junior College, I guess. My father didn't have any
education except what he got in grade school. But
he did get a teaching certificate and taught
school in Barnesville, which is in Johnson
County. And my mother was on a farm that belonged to
her parents there. And she played the piano in a
little schoolhouse where they had church
services. And my dad happened to be teaching at
that same school. And that's where they met and
married in 1897.
I was born on that farm, my grandmother's farm
there, out east of Cleburne in 1898.
We lived out there a couple of years and moved into
Cleburne where I started to school. In 1907,
my dad filed on some land out at Portales, New
Mexico. This would be a homestead. Homestead. And
we moved out there. He was at that time working for
the Santa Fe Railroad. They furnished us an
immigrant car in which he put all of our furniture
and a couple of horses and a couple of cows and some
pigs and chickens and what farm equipment he could
get in there. Hired a man to ride that car. And we
rode the day coach, of course. We got passive on the
Santa Fe. Consequently, we had to go from Cleburne
up to Winfield, Kansas, and back to Amarillo. We
couldn't ride the Fort Worth and Denver because
our pass was not good on it. But anyway, we got back
through there and settled on a farm in Portales.
The first year there, I went to a little adobe
one-room schoolhouse, about sixteen pupils, one
teacher, and it was only a five-month school.
That's all the money they had, so they just wanted
five months and quit. Did the parents pay the
teacher directly? No, they had—I don't know just
how they worked it. I was just nine years old at the
time, and I don't remember that. But the next term,
my father taught five months, and then he decided
that that wasn't any place to raise a family in such
a school as that, so he took us to Amarillo to put us
in school in 1910. Did the family then move to
Amarillo? The family moved to Amarillo, left the
farm and moved to Amarillo, and he went to work for
the Santa Fe Railroad in 1910.
And I went through school there, graduated from
Amarillo High School in 1916.
And I didn't have enough money to go to college, and
I decided to go to A&M because I could go there
cheaper than anywhere else because I knew they
wore uniforms and wouldn't have much clothing
expense. And I worked two years in order to get
enough money to start down there. What type of work
did you do? I went to a business college and got a job
as a stenographer and file clerk for the Santa Fe
Railroad.
And in 1918, I registered for the draft in July of
1918, my 20th birthday, and went on down to A&M,
though, and enrolled there. and was inducted into
the Army in October of 1918. It was inducted into
the SATC. Yeah. And I drew two paydays. And then, of
course, the armistice came. And they discharged
us on the 21st of December. And I was back home for
Christmas in 1918. So you went down. Did you go to
A&M and enroll? for school or was the SATC already
established when you arrived as a freshman? It
wasn't established, I guess, because I enrolled
in school and went there a couple of months before I
was inducted. All of us that were of that age were
inducted into the SATC, and the boys that were too
young, of course, continued as cadets. So you were
two years older than most of the freshmen. Yes.
See, I had stayed out of school. I finished high
school in 16 and didn't go to A&M until 18 in order to
make enough money to get down there. And I worked
all the time I was there, whatever I could find to
do, mowing lawns. Would this be mowing lawns for
the school or for the professors? Professors.
And, of course, in my... junior year I was taking
civil engineering and I had enough surveying to
get a job with the buildings and grounds committee
and did some surveying there and set some corners
and street markers and things. This was on the
campus? On the campus for the buildings and
grounds department and I also did some typing,
sonography work on the side and of course They had a
crew there with tow sacks and sticks with spikes on
the end of them to pick up paper and cigarette butts
and things, police campus. I worked at that, oh,
two or three hours a week, and swept the military
walk from one end to the other, from Speza Hall down
to Guyon Hall. Was it paved in any way at that point?
It was paved. Guyon Hall was a new hall. Mm-hmm. And
we got 25 cents an hour for that. That's for
sweeping. For sweeping or for picking up
cigarette butts. So I got 25 cents an hour for the
lawn mowing. How about for surveying? I don't
remember what I was paid for that, but it was a
little more than that. It was a little more skill
required for that, I would think. Yeah. I don't
remember now what it was.
My dad, of course, helped me all he could. I'd get
enough money to matriculate, sign a note for the
difference, and pay it off as I worked along.
Occasionally, he'd send a check, which was
pretty... Did you personally sign a note for the
difference? Yeah. Who sort of underwrote this
note? Nobody. What I mean is, you signed a
promissory note to the school? Yeah. And any money
you earned was deducted from that amount you owed
them? Well, no, it was paid to me, and I went and paid
it off. I remember one time in particular, I went
over there to pay one off, and they said, your dad
just sent the money in. I was real happy about that,
of course. A little pocket change, then.
Yeah. Okay. Were there any factors other than the
cost at A&M that led you to go there? Well, of
course, I'd heard of A&M and it appealed to me. I
didn't know anybody that had been there, just what
I had read about it. But the cost factor was the main
thing. Did the military appeal to you at all? Not
particularly. In fact, I got out of the military in
my junior year because of a knee injury. I was no
longer able to stay in the military, so I resigned
from that and went into the casual hall and
finished as a civilian. So I never did finish the
ROTC.
Did you go through any particular procedures to be
admitted to the school? No. Did you send them a
record of your grades or anything, or did you just
carry that with you? I carried it with me, but I
didn't have any prior correspondence with them. I
just went off down there and gave them the record
that I had, of course. Was there anybody to meet
your train when you arrived there? No, because we
went early, and my roommate and I We thought we'd go
down two or three days early and kind of feel our way
around. Were you able to register immediately, or
did they have a certain day set aside? Oh, we
registered. We were a couple of days early. We
registered when we got there. And we were assigned
to a hall. And as I told you, we went up and picked out
a corner room and fixed it up. But we ended up in the
basement. But by being assigned to a particular
dorm, that meant you were assigned to a particular
military company. Yes, Company D. Company D.
Infantry. Were you in that company both years you
were in the military?
Yeah. But, let's see, since they very quickly,
after you arrived, you discontinued your regular
schooling and got into the SATC. Until SATC, of
course. Well, it was regular schooling in SATC,
except we had a little more drilling and a little
more. So you did go to regular classes? Oh, yes.
While you were in the SATC. Couldn't tell any
differences as far as that's concerned. And then,
I believe from what I have read elsewhere, when
everybody was discharged from that in December or
thereabouts. December 21st. You came back in
January and started kind of a whole new year all
over again, I believe, didn't you? And that's when
they decided to separate the sophomores, put them
in a separate hall, put the freshmen in with the
juniors and seniors, which wasn't such a good
idea. Well then they made what, a separate company
out of all the sophomores? Yeah. Except I presume
they had some juniors and senior officers. Oh
yeah.
What do you think was the reason behind that? to
stop hazing, cut down on the hazing. The
sophomores were the principal culprits in the
hazing business. However, of course, the juniors
hazed us more than sophomores did because they
were right in the building with us. The sophomores
would organize and raid the dormitory where we
were. Of course, we'd hear them coming, and those
of us that could went to the woods.
What were your first reactions to the school when
you arrived there? Well, I was real pleased with
it. I liked A&M. And the thing that appealed to me,
you couldn't tell the difference between a rich
boy and a poor boy. We all looked alike. We all
dressed alike. And you never knew anything about
what a boy's background was. It was very
democratic. Well, it was pretty strict on keeping
up the appearance of your uniform? Oh, yes. Yes,
very strict about our uniforms and our rooms. Did
you have one uniform, two, or three, or how many?
Well, the government issued us one uniform and an
overcoat and a poncho. We wore ponchos instead of
raincoats, and of course had to wear hats.
I had two or three uniforms of my own. Of course
khaki uniform then wasn't very expensive. So you
did have ample opportunity to have your uniform
cleaned occasionally? Oh yeah. They had laundry
service. They'd back the laundry truck up there
every Monday or Tuesday, Wednesday, whatever
day. You'd put your laundry out on the stoop and
they'd pick it up and return it. That was all part of
the whole deal. I take it your uniform was
identified some way so that they could. Oh yeah it
was all marked just like you'd send it to a laundry
here. When I went down there I had two or three silk
shirts happened to be a vogue then for boys to wear
silk shirts which were pretty expensive but I had
bought two or three of them and after I
matriculated I decided that course we all figured
that we'd be in France before the year was out
because they were sending them over just fast to
get them ready. So we took our shirts down to the
mess hall and sold them to the Mexicans. A silk
shirt that had cost us ten dollars we sold for two or
three dollars to the Mexican help down there. But
of course as soon as we got out of the As soon as we
were discharged, we were sorry we had done that.
Then we had to go buy everything back, but I didn't
buy any more silk shirts. Were you permitted to
have refinements, let us say, like a silk shirt as
part of your uniform? Oh, no. No, these were
civilian. You just wore this when you were off
campus or something? Yeah. We couldn't wear them
on the campus at all. When we went home at
Christmas, we could wear them, or went off the
campus, we could wear them, but never on the
campus. It was strictly military. And they posted
guards in all the dormitories in the evening to
enforce a curfew. And we had to walk a certain post,
just like a military post would be conducted. Did
you walk a post in your own dormitory or in some
other one? Well, wherever they'd sign you. As I
said a while ago, when you were assigned to the
sophomore dormitory, it was pretty rough. You
were at their mercy then. Yeah. Did you have one man
on each floor of the dormitory, or more than that,
or less than that? Well, it depended on the
dormitory, how they were arranged. In Foster
Hall, we just had one man at the floor. Now, in
Mitchell Hall, we had two at the floor. And we had to
walk the post, walk back and forth all the time with
a rifle. Of course, it was not loaded. It didn't
have a bayonet or anything, but it and you had to
learn the general orders and the special orders
and if the officer of the day came up you had to
salute him and tell him what the general orders
were and what the special order if you had any
trouble you called this corporal of the guard he'd
send some help uh did you if you had a or assigned
guard duty did you do the whole three-hour trick or
whatever it was between uh beginning and the end of
quiet hour They'd come around about once a week.
You'd have to do that. Certain platoons were
assigned a certain days. I see.
The boys had to be in their rooms at 730. Everybody,
except the seniors, they were exempt because they
were all officers. You didn't have any senior
privates? No. At various and sundry times, they
had a few senior privates scattered around. Well,
I don't remember any at that time. Well, of course,
that, I suppose, was a little bit different there,
at least initially, because a lot of the senior
boys who were seniors probably went off directly
into the military at the start of their senior
year. In fact, there were very few seniors, very
few juniors, and very few seniors up until
Christmas, until after the armistice was signed.
The sophomores pretty well ran things the first
few months. Must have been quite a blow to then have
the upperclassmen come back after Christmas,
wasn't it? Yeah.
Could you describe a typical day while you were
there? And I presume in view of the fact that you
were military for two years and civilian for two,
there was some difference between them. Well, of
course, they blew revelry about daylight. We had
to stand formation and march to the mess hall,
Speza Hall. Everybody marched down there in
formation. Had breakfast. And then they left the
hall just as they get through and casually go back
to the rooms and wait for a class call. Everything
was done by the bugle. You had to go by the bugle. No
going to class early. And they called you. call you
to class and you go whatever class you were going.
And certain days during the week, of course, we had
to drill during the morning and that was done by
bugle call. They'd blow the bugle and if the
weather looked bad, they'd blow overcoat call or
raincoat call or whatever and you had to wear an
overcoat, whatever. And at noontime at When
classes were over then, they blew retreat, not
retreat, but recall, and you'd go back to the
dormitory in formation to go to lunch, march to
lunch in formation. After lunch then, you'd go
back to your room, and if you didn't have a class,
you were free to do whatever you wanted to do, go to
work, or study, or sleep, or whatever. And the same
thing was done at supper time. You'd form, again,
military formation to go to supper. And after
supper then, you were free until 730. And you had to
be in the room at 730. You had somebody come by to
make sure you were there. Well, they had guards.
check all the rooms. And then at 10 o'clock, or I
believe it was 9.45 maybe, they blew, I've
forgotten the name of the call, but at 10 o'clock
was taps. When they blew taps, all the lights went
out and you were supposed to be in bed. No
activities after taps, except seniors, they
didn't have to go by that. And what about the last
two years when you were out of the military in the
casual dorm? We had none of that in the casuals.
Obviously you could be awakened by the bugle in the
morning. Oh, yeah. But we didn't have to march to
meals. We'd just get up and go to breakfast or go to
meals or miss meal if you want to. But as long as you
were in the military, you had to report and march
down there. You didn't have to eat. get up and leave
if you wanted to. If you didn't like what they had,
you could get up and leave. Well, a few times they'd
feed us, they called it lamb, we called it goat, and
on signal everybody would take the platter of lamb
out to the middle of the mess hall and dump it all in
the floor, ladders of meat and all. in protest of
that. It was really good food. They had very good
food.
There were a couple of meals you didn't like.
When you were in the casual dorm or non-military
dorm,
where did you eat? Did you have a separate section
set aside? We ate in the same hall but had separate
tables. And of course, the athletes had separate
tables. And when I got this knee trouble, a doctor
assigned me to a special table, special diet. And
he assigned me to one of the athletes' tables and
told me to eat lots of steaks and stuff that the
athletes got. So I did pretty well there. Yeah. I
was going to say, I imagine that didn't bother you
at all, did you?
I
believe you said when you arrived a little bit
early and you selected your dormitory room, and
that was again in what dorm? That was in Leggett.
Leggett, that was your first year. And then you had
to go down, and you ended up in the basement. What
was the life like in the dormitory there? Well, it
was something, of course, entirely different to
what I'd ever been used to. But you soon got
accustomed to it. It was not bad. It was really, as I
look back on it, a very pleasurable time.
Was there a pretty good deal of difference in life,
say, in the military dorm and the non-military
dorm? Oh, yes. How would you describe the
difference? Well, of course, in the non-military
dorm, He would just like being at home or being in a
boarding house. He didn't have a quiet hour? No, he
didn't have any restrictions at all. Because most
of them were older men that had been in service and
had come back, served their time in France or
wherever. But I happened to be there because of an
injury. Anybody that had an injury that prevented
him from Being in the military, you'd be assigned
there. During the time you were there, was there
ever any option? If you had been in the military for
two years, could you, without giving any other
reason than that you wanted to, drop out of the
military for the last two? Yes, if you had served
during the war. You didn't have to take it at all. It
wasn't required. Not for any of the four years.
They could have let to do it and of course a lot of the
boys that had started out as freshmen and were
called overseas and came back, of course they went
right back in it because a lot of them liked it. But
supposing a boy came there in say the year 1919,
1920 and had not been in the military, he just
finished high school in the spring of 19, and came
there in the fall of 19, was he obligated to do the
military for four years? I understand that he was.
Unless he had a physical excuse.
Yeah. That was my understanding.
What privileges did the upperclassmen have that
were denied to the freshmen?
The sophomores didn't have very much of anything,
and the juniors maybe a little more than the
sophomores. The senior was pretty well on his own.
Of course, they were the officers.
They had privileges that we didn't have. They
could go to bond any time they wanted to. We
couldn't get off the campus without a pass any
time. And they were not allowed to have a car or even
a motorcycle on the campus. Did you have a bicycle?
Well, I don't remember any that the students had. I
remember some of the professors used bicycles.
This would be to go from their residence to the
classroom. Most of the professors at that time
lived on campus. Were there very many of them that
had bicycles? No, the majority of them did not, but
there were a few that did.
Bicycles were not, I gather at that point, not a
very prevalent means of transportation anyway.
Many of the professors have cars? No, very few of
them did. For most everybody then it was on foot.
They ran an interurban car from College Station to
Brown. That's the way we got over to Bryan. When
we'd get a pass, you'd have to get a pass to go to
Bryan or get off the campus. This was as long as you
were in the military, you had to have a pass. Yeah.
Casuals did not have to.
What was this, an electric interurban or
gasoline? Electric.
Any recollection of how much it cost you to ride
over to Bryan? No, I don't remember.
I guess about 15 cents, but I don't know. For what
purposes would people go over to Bryan? Oh, just to
get off the campus. Go to the picture show. We could
go over there and go to the show. If you got back
before taps. That was anybody other than
freshmen, I presume, could do that. Yeah,
freshmen couldn't get it. Well, sometimes if you
had relatives there or somebody special,
freshmen could get a pass to get off. But it's very
rare. Was there any place on or near the campus
that, say, a parent who came down to see their
children, was there any place they could stay?
Yes, there were some places there. The YMCA had a
few rooms. My mother came down and, well, my father
was down there once. They stayed at the YMCA. And
there were some other places there. And I think
some of the professors rented rooms to visitors,
but you could always find a place in Brown.
When you were in
the non-military group your last two years, the
dormitory you lived in was Milner Hall. Was that
the only dormitory for non-military or did they
have any other? I asked at one point, I know they had
a couple that were called Alpha and Beta. Two
wooden structures. Well, I don't know about that.
That could have been... I believe those were in the
mid-20s sometime. Must have been later. However,
they still had some of the old military barracks
there, but I don't know what use they put them
there. That would have been barracks that they
erected for the regular army who were on campus in
18. Yeah.
What
did you do for entertainment or recreation? Well,
there wasn't a whole lot that we could do.
They had about once a week, they'd have a picture
show, a free picture show. Where was that? Well, it
was in a sort of pavilion. I've forgotten what they
called the thing. Was that the one they called the
air dome? Air dome.
And, oh, once or twice a year they'd have dances. Of
course, the Ross Volunteers always had some
things going. I didn't belong to the Ross
Volunteers. But what they had was only for the
members of that group, not for everybody else. And
they had the... But our time was pretty well taken
up, the time you got through the day and got all your
studying and your lab work done and your studying
for the next day. It was time for taps.
Were there any facilities in the Y for playing
games or anything of that nature? Was the swimming
pool in the Y when you were there? Yeah. Was that
free or did you have to pay for that? I don't know. I
never did use it. I don't know whether it was free or
not. I wasn't much of a water dog. What else did they
have there besides that? Well, they had game rooms
where they played different games, dominoes and
checkers and things of that nature.